# Folder_Structure
To organise files and documents in a project a hierarchical folder structure shown in figure 1 was 
used.

```{image} FolderStructure.png
:alt: Folder Structure SVI
:class: bg-primary mb-1
:width: 500px
:align: center
```


A top-level project folder (e.g. ISVEHI folder) contains 4 sub-folders: 0_data, 1_code, 2_pipeline, and 3_output. Each folder are explained in more detail below:
“1_data contains all the input data that is either retrieved from external sources or created manually. For example, this includes data downloaded from databases, but also an Excel sheets. The core principle here is that nothing in this folder should ever be modified. The data in this folder should remain identical to the way that you have retrieved or manually created it.” To keep organize and seperate different cities/countries files, it would be beneficial to have different subfolders for each city/country (e.g Cork, Spain)
“1_code contains all your code files. This includes, for example, code files for R, Jupyter_Notebooks. 
“2_pipeline contains a separate sub-folder for each code file included in the 1_code folder, they correspond based on the name (minus the file extension). This implies, for example, that a code file “0_load_data.ipynb” in 1_code would have a sub-folder in the 2_pipeline folder with the name “0_load_data”. The main idea is that all output generated by a code file ends up in their corresponding pipeline folder. This makes it very easy to understand how data is flowing between code files as the data location indicates where it was generated. To further organize the generated outputs, I advise the following folders in each sub-folder: out, store, and tmp.”
“2_pipeline -> sub-folder -> out contains files that you save with the intention of loading them in a future code file. These are usually the “end-products” of the current code file.”
“2_pipeline -> sub-folder -> store contains files that you save with the intention of loading them in the current code file. This is, for example, used in scenarios where it takes a while to run parts of your code and to avoid having to re-run these parts every time you might want to intermittently save the progress of your generated data to the store folder.”
“2_pipeline -> sub-folder -> tmp contains files that you save for inspection purposes or some other temporary reason. The basic principle is that you should not have to worry about anything in the tmp folder being deleted as it only serves a temporary purpose.”
2_pipeline folder also should contain subfolders of cities/countries to separate each city/country generated files and outputs.
“3_output contains any final output files that are intended to go into the paper. This includes files such as tables and figures.” And also should contain city/country subfolder.
